Explanation QC

you filter for mitochondrial, ribosomal and hemoglobin genes (these last are important 
if using tissue)

if I have multiple sample I want to divide the undata object for each sample and perform
the QC SEPERATELY for each sample (both QC and normalization step)

Cellbander, SoupX --> to remove ambient RNA 
Maybe it's better to run the exclusion of ambient RNA before all the QC. 
Run CellRanger and right after run Cellbander, then QC.

Double detection tool creates artificial doubles by randomly selecting groups of cell together
and add to the sample. Like this it will identify cluster enriched in doublets.

3 different methods for normalization depending on your sample and the tool you use
you want to remove the technical variations

Feature selection:
we have all the genes filtered, but is computational expensive to do 
PCA and other analyisis on all (like housekeeping genes).
So, we use highly variable genes, to tease out the cells!

compute the variance of gene expression, try to fit a trend on the 
graph and the gene above are the highly variable.
In Seurat the function is the FindVariableFeature, not filtering out per gene but only selected (maxium 10.000 genes, is already a lot). 
It depends on the sample, if is more homogeneous even 500-1000 genes,
while if is heterogeneous higher (>1000). 

Better to do the highly variable genes per batch or per sample. 
Remember that words with '...' are a string, so if it said that is not defined maybe try to put brakets

Each object has different layers, by default scanpy will take the first one, X layer. When performing the normalization you need to create another layer where store the raw data.

When doing the feature selection I need the raw counts, so specify the raw count layer!

PCA is not distorting the data when graphing data, while tSNE and UMAP
does. PCA is linear and you can do assumption based on the distances,
while for UMAP and tSNE distances means nothing. 

UMAP is better to see the batch effect

Integration and batch effect
maybe start with the lighter integration method and then move to more
strong methods. For example, there is also SCVI use the raw counts 

CellTypist
you have to align your genome to a reference. that reference should be a .pkl file, 
idxmax () most common predicted label, count the majority of cells in one cluster. It will give you back only the annotation (assign to each cluster a cell type). 

But I have to calculate the fraction of confidence, so verify that each cluster was assigned correctly, with the vast majority of cells really in that cluster. There should not be a 555 cells to cluster 8 and 554 cells to cluster 6. 